---
title: Join us!
---

We currently have two fully-funded doctoral positions, to start in Sept. 2021
and Jan. 2022 (descriptions below; dates flexible). Each position comes with a
guaranteed annual amount of 22500 CAD. Tuition will be paid in full. All lab
members get access to the lab's computing resources, both on-site and managed by
Compute Québec, and get the opportunity to apply to additional funding through
NSERC CREATE programs, as well as teach in a variety of classes. Both positions
will be based at the Department of Biological Sciences, at Université de
Montréal.

All prospective applicants **must** familiarize themselves with our
[values](https://poisotlab.io/values/) and code of conduct. The research group
is multi-cultural and multi-lingual, and neither fluency in, nor knowledge of,
French are required to apply.

The interview process proceeds in three steps: an initial one-hour meeting with
Timothée (and a potential co-advisor when applicable), (possibly) followed by a
one-hour meeting with former and current group members, (possibly) followed by
the final interview to figure out the logistics of admission.

We encourage all interested students to apply, and to treat the list of
desirable skills as a very broad recommendation. First and foremost, a Ph.D. is
a *training* experience, and willingness to acquire specific skills is a trait
we highly value in lab members. "Programming" does not refer to a specific
language, but the lab uses [Julia](https://julialang.org/), and it is expected
to be the language used for the overwhelming majority of research projects.

Applicants must submit, as a single PDF file, an application package containing:

- a cover letter (no more than 1 page) explaining their previous research
  activities, most notable skills for the position, and a statement of how this
  position will help them fulfill their career goals
- a brief (no more than 2 pages) statement of research interests in relation to
  the suggested research goals, and concrete ideas for topics they would like to
  explore during the Ph.D.
- a brief (no more than 1 page) statement on EDI
- a short resume following the [NSF biosketch
  format](https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/biosketch.jsp)
 
At **no point** must the applicant submit or mention information related to
grades, awards, prizes, altmetrics, impact factor, prestige of undegraduate or
graduate institution and/or advisors.

The application document must be sent by email to
`timothee.poisot@umontreal.ca`, with the subject line “Ph.D. position -
[position title]”; applications will be reviewed in real-time, and remain opened
until a suitable applicant has been identified.

## Prediction of ecological interactions using network embedding and deep learning

Ecological interactions are difficult to predict, because the data on them are
extremely sparse, and the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. The goal
of this Ph.D. project is to evaluate the feasibility of network embedding
approaches to extract information from known ecological networks, in order to
facilitate prediction and forecasting (in particular under climate change). The
applicant will be expected to work on a variety of data and biological systems,
and notably to contribute to the work of the Viral Emergence Research Initiative
([VERENA](https://www.viralemergence.org/)), to contribute to our ongoing
efforts to predict host-virus associations.

**Desirable skills:** ecological networks; applied mathematics; machine
learning; advanced research computing; community or diease ecology

## Development of Essential Biodiversity Variables for ecological networks

Essential Biodiversity Variables
([EBVs](https://geobon.org/ebvs/what-are-ebvs/)) are quantitative instruments to
facilitate the dialogue between empirical measurements and policy-making. As of
now, the structure of ecological interactions does not have a class of EBVs of
its own. The overall aim of this Ph.D. is to (i) assist with the completion of a
roadmap outlining the perspectives opened for biodiversity management by having
networks EBVs, (ii) develop the methodological and quantitative toolkit required
to measure and report these variables and (iii) deploy a pilot case-study of
these EBVs within the context of a biodiversity observation network, based on
existing measured and inferred interaction data. The selected applicant will
have the opportunity to interact with the Québec Observatory of Ecosystems, and
the GEOBON secrétariat and community, both actively involved in the development
of EBVs and biodiversity observation networks.

**Desirable skills:** ecological networks; data management; programming; GIS;
conservation biology